### Digging Deeper.
> In line quote lines still need answers, either from asking questions in IRC, other portions of the project, or analyzing git commit history
> If applicable, list or provide links to:

  * Matrix Channel: https://riot.im/app/#/room/#freenode_##rit-hfoss-godot:matrix.org
  * Repo: https://github.com/ct-martin/hfoss-commarch-godot
  * Mail list archive:
  * Documentation:
  * Other communication channels
  * Project Website and/or Blog: 

  * A.  ***Godot*** <br>
        "Godot Engine is a feature-packed, cross-platform game engine to create 2D and 3D games from a unified interface" <sup>1</sup>. Godot helps develolpers save time by giving them a variety of tools commonly used in game development. Their goal is to help users focus more on their game and less on redeveloping commonly used features. Godot is licensed under the MIT lecense and is completely free to use. Users of Godot are the sole owners of any games they create and Godot is supported by the Software Freedom Conservancy.
  * B.  Godot was first worked on in 2007 by Juan 'reduz'Liniestsky and Ariel 'punto' Manzur. It was not until 2014 that Godot released its source code under the MIT License. The 'first commit'can be found [here](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/tree/0e49da1687bc8192ed210947da52c9e5c5f301bb). There have since then been over 13,000 commits and there are currently over 3,000 issues and over 200 open pull requests. Godot is now on version 3.0 and 576 people have helped in making it what it is. At the time of writing, the most recent commit was on 3/24/2018.  
  * C.  Patches are submitted as a Pull Request and reviewed by other contributors. If no issues are raised or modifications requested, a maintaner of the repository will merge the commit with the master branch and close the pull request.
  * D.  There are contributers to the Godot project that play the role of "maintainer". The job of this grouping of people is to monitor the pull requests that are submitted and merge them into the main branch when there are no conflicts and other developers have raised no concerns. While only a few are permitted to merge with main, anyone is able to submit a pull request and have their patch accepted. Assuming they follow the proper style guidelines and workflow laid out in the documentation, that is. 
  * ` E.  Who has the highest amounts of "Unique Knowledge?" (As per your "Git-by-a-bus" report. If there is a tie, list each contributor, with links if possible). `
  * F.  What is your project's "Calloway Coefficient of Fail?.<br>
        "Our Coefficient of Fail is 65pts (aka 'Kittens die when your code is downloaded'), however, 50 of those points are for not using GMake, and the Godot project's reasoning is seemingly sound,
        so we believe 15pts (aka 'You're probably doing okay, but you could be better.') is a more accurate representation of the project."
  * G.  There hasn't been any significant turn over among developers for the Godot project. The few developers that have contributed the majority of code have remained over a long period of time. Their effor=t, however, has come and gone in cycles. While the primary develoeprs have mostly either been there from the beginning or recently joined on, there are a number of contributors who only made commits in small time frames and never returned. The majority of all developers for this project only tend to hang around for a few months before moving on. 
  * H. While no information was obtained about the organizational and logistical structure of the Godot project, the small communication made with contributing members via IRC made no indication of any member being a Benevolent Dictator for Life. There is, however, clearly some form of hierarchy system with all members having a voice but some being more powerful than others. 
  * `I  Are the front and back end developers the same people? What is the proportion of each?`
  * J. Some of the major concerns that the Godot project has faced is choice in scripting language and UI design. There has been a lot of discussion among contributors about whether the project should switch to using another language for scripting, or continue using their own GDscript. Currently GDSCript is the supported scripting language. There was also lengthy discussions in the design process for the UI of Godot. This makes sense because a sleek and useable interface is necessary to gather a userbase. The majority of high issue bugs seem to focus around GPU issues. Again, this makes sense given that the project is a game engine and relies on a machines GPU to render a games graphics. 
  * K. Commits to the Godot project seem to come and go in waves, with some periods of the year seeing high activity, and others receiving no love. With just a few contributors really providing code to the project, its easy to assume their contributions to the project coincide with the events going on in their lives. Most of the lesser involved contributors have recently joined the project and there seems to be a growing number of new contributors. While new contributors are growing, however, the peak amount of commits is slowly decreasing over time. 
  * L. While the project may survive one of the two primary contributors being eaten by a raptor, there is no way that it would survive if they both were eaten. Both have contributed more code than all others combined and are integral to the Godot team. 
  * M> There is no way this project would survive if the top 20% of contributors were struck by a bus. There is too much dependence on just a few developers. It's possible that the program itself may still be used in its current stable form, and possibly forked in the future, but the current Godot project as it exists would end. 
  * N.  Godot provides excellent documentation to help new users on-board to the project. In depth guides have been created to walk users through forking the project, checking out a branch and making changes, and then submitting a pull request to have their modifactions accepted into the upstream main branch.
  * O.  Documentation also exists for the API to help users understand the proper usage. Tutorial code is given to the users to help them combine features of the Godot Engine. Users are provided with examples of a number of common implementaions.
  * P.  If I ran into issues with this project, the first place that I would go to would be the IRC. There is a large active community always ready to answer any questions that may be had.
  * Q. There seems to be quite an inclusive approach to issues with the Godot engine, while only a few maintainers of the repository actually have the power to make changes. All users and developers are invited to voice their concerns and raise issues for debate with how the engine should move forward. There are quite a few issues posted in the repository with over 100 comments between users discussing the best course of action.   
  * R. The friendly and inclusive atmosphere that Godot gives is definitely one that I would enjoy working in. 

  ### Sources
  1.) http://docs.godotengine.org/en/3.0/about/introduction.html
